Computer  Wired:
Check all of the network cables and wires. A loose or disconnected cable or wire prevents a network connection and Internet access. 
Try hooking up another computer and see if it works. If it doesn’t work replace the wires and if it works on one but not the other computer, it might be a faulty network card.
Network cable from the modem to the network hub (or router). Network cable from the network hub to the RJ-45 network port on the computer. Network cable between two computers.
Check the lights on the network hub. The lights can often show the location of a connection problem. If you are trying to connect to another computer on the network, make sure that computer is turned on.
Try pinging the switch or router and see if packets are getting dropped. (see references on how to do).
Check the firewall settings on all the computers on the network. The firewall settings may be preventing network access. Checking the network status in the Network and Sharing Center. Use the following steps to open the Network and Sharing Center to check the network status in Windows 10. Type view network status in the search box on the task bar, then select View network status and tasks from the search results. Search results for view network status. Check the View your active networks section at the top of the page. If the computer is not connected to a network, a You are currently not connected to any networks message displays. View your active networks section If you are not connected to a network, perform the steps in the network connection checklist to check the cables and hardware. If still not connected to a network, click set up a new connection or network, then click Connect to the Internet. Connecting to the Internet. Click Broadband (PPPoE). Connect to the Internet window. Enter the User name and Password for the network connection, give the connection a name, and then click Connect. If you do not experience further problems with the network, you are done. If you are still experiencing problems with the network, enable network discovery and file sharing.
Checking the network status in the Network and Sharing Center. Type view network status in the search box on the task bar, then select View network status and tasks from the search results. Check the View your active networks section at the top of the page. If the computer is not connected to a network, a You are currently not connected to any networks message displays. If you are not connected to a network, perform the steps in the network connection checklist to check the cables and hardware. If still not connected to a network, click Set up a new connection or network, then click Connect to the Internet. Click Broadband (PPPoE). Enter the User name and Password for the network connection, give the connection a name, and then click Connect. If you do not experience further problems with the network, you are done. If you are still experiencing problems with the network, enable network discovery and file sharing.
Reinstalling the network adapter software in Device Manager. Network problems might be caused by an issue with the network adapter. Follow these steps to reinstall the network adapter in Windows 10 Device Manager: Type device manager in the search box on the task bar, then select Device Manager from the search results. Figure: Search for device manager. Search results for device manager. Double-click the Network adapters category. Figure: Network adapters. Device Manager window showing Network adapters expanded. Right-click the name of the Network Adapter and select Uninstall. On the Confirm Device Uninstall window, click OK. When the network adapter software had been uninstalled, restart the computer. The computer will reinstall the device driver software.
After the computer restarts and completes the installation of the device driver software, try connecting to the Internet. If you do not experience further problems with the network, you are done. If you are still experiencing problems with the network, update the network drivers.
Updating the network drivers. Network problems might be caused by outdated network drivers.